Hello, I present myself in front of you this way, because I see as you do, that the campaign
for the presidential election in which I'm candidate
enters in a huge turbulence, and this deserves an afterthought.
You have seen that after Mrs Juppé, Sarkozy were eliminated from this election,
after that the president of the republic in practice had to renounce
to defend his past mandate in front of the French people,
now it is Mr Fillon's turn to be himself in the turmoil,
and a lot of watchers think that, in a few days from now, his position will become unbearable,
given everything the media and the legal investigations say on him.
Clearly, we enter a huge turmoil area, especially with the elimination of Mr Valls last Sunday.
What's up now? I think that everyone can see it.
Whether in a political party or in an other, anyway, there is a wave
that drives to kick out the the people responsible of the situation we're living nowadays.
This wave has a terrible power
and anyone who would try to oppose it will be washed away by it. And that's fine!
We need to open positives outlooks but no one will do something against this general wish expressed today.
In my case, I chose my side a long time ago,
and you know it.
Some blamed me for saying "We vote, they get out".
So, it prickles a bit, but we have to admit that
it matches the state of mind of the French people, both on the Right and the Left.
At this point, after the elimination of Mr Valls, Mr Benoît Hamon speaks to me and says that he makes a gesture to me.
I'm glad to hear it, because it's a welcome change from what I lived the last 10 years, when no-one spoke to me with this tone.
I also noticed the amount of words from my vernacular and my program that he borrowed, and I'm glad.
I consider that it moves the ideas forward and I don't claim any copyright.
On the contrary, the more we share,
the happier I am, I always said it.
I think a lot of people think my way.
Do we have to speak to each other?
Of course we have to!
Me, I'm partisan of a republican exercise of trade and dialogue, we should be able to speak to each other, in this country.
You see when I come to a city like Tourcoing to hold a political meeting,
or Toulouse where I held a Picnic as well as Périgueux,
the Mayor of the city is not on my side and neither of us want to change our minds.
However, we meet and we speak,
and I am well-received in these cities.
So, particularly
I think that it has to be possible for me
to speak with Benoît Hamon, that I have known as a student union responsible,
as a leader of the Socialists' Youth Mouvement (MJS),
and later on as a minister.
As a result, there is nothing against talking to each other.
But this case is not about personal relationships, this case is about content.
What side do we choose for the years to come and for the way of managing the country from the 2017 presidential election onwards.
I ask to deliberate about it, we are not making a party conference
we are preparing
the election for an historical period
in which France will play a big part, on great topics:
international trade agreements,
European treaty,
All these questions ends up on the table
We have to take it on with method, order and an absolute clarity of points of view
and no double talk
No one else in this country wants to be played a second time like in the "Bourget" speech ( from the yet to be elected president Hollande in 2012)
that is to say a great speech, extremely flattering to ear, followed by exactly opposite actions
Benoît Hamon who is the winner of the PS' primary (socialist party) speaks to me.
I watched carefully what he asked me.
I clearly saw that he has no intention of questioning his application
He does not put it in discussion between each other
Well!
He dealt with it during an interview with Mr Bourdin
so i ask you to watch the following sequence, instead of saying it myself, he might as well say it with his own words
Here it is!
Mr Hamon: "You do not race for the presidency to make one lap around the track
I already said that during the primary
Mr Bourdin: "You will pursue to the end?"
Mr Hamon: "I will pursue to the end, there will be a Benoît Hamon's ballot paper for the Presidential election"
Well, you heard him, so...
Now what does he offer to form? A Governmental and parliamentary consistent majority
So, i say kindly to Benoît Hamon:
it is not possible that you ask to us to form a governmental and parliamentary consistent majority
As you say; by mixing people who wants to "turn the page" on the past as we do
with people who are responsible for what is ON the page
such as members of the National assembly that you want to nominate for the upcoming Legislative Election during your Party Convention
Because we will encounter people with whom I ask you: how can we form a majority with them?
Since we fought em during year.
In facts, to be more practical
How can you form a majority to abrogate the "El Khomri " law WITH Ms El Khomri as a PS's deputy
How can you abrogate all the brutal acts done by the President of the PS's group Mr Bruno Le Roux WITH hi as a candidate
How can you even imagine to change anything when you offer make re-elected as Evry's deputy Mr Manuel Valls
That is not serious,
No-one will believe that all of this could work together,
Because it already did not work, together,  so far
i admit you voted to support the last François Hollande's prime minister
But, you cannot ask us to "do the splits" as you do
and that is not all
you ask us as well to create a consistent majority with deputys from your party whom prepares to vote Mr Macron for president
But, nothing about it is actually serious
you cannot govern a great country with teams made of scraps and jetsam
Ones against others during years all the sudden meeting and kissing each other
Enough jokes, time for clarity!
So i ask to Mr Hamon with much sympathy: Now, it's time to chose
There is a wave moving forward, so lean on it
Let it carry you.
Chose, between them and us, Chose
between the "go away" wave and the rescue of the "old world", Chose
Chose and decide
Because WE will not change our mind
we want to turn the page
we want to move on to the sixth republic
we want to exit the european treaties
we want an ecologic scheduling
we want to exit NATO
and so on
we want wealth sharing in a clear and sharp way in this country for those who were robbed by the last two presidents the republic
We want life to change for these millions of poor people
homeless people, living in the streets who do not care at all about our arrangements
What counts for them is life changing for real.
and we will not change it, vamping the "old world"
But let's be honest, this is my point of view.
you heard it, Dear Benoît Hamon, I will listen to the answer you will give me saturday,
by investing or not those persons that cannot be part of the majority you offer us to form with you.
we will never be part of such a crew anyhow
finally, for all of you listening and I look forward to seeing you this Sunday in Lyon.
I hope that as many of you as possible will be in attendance for the meeting I organise there
because this very day, in Lyon there will be, between the two rivers , Saone and Rhone
the two or three great thoughts that gives soul to this era
Ms Le Pen's communitarianism, because that is what it is, communitarianism she does
indifference to other embodied by Mr Macron's liberalism, who offers liberalization for everyone
and our practice, humanism
With solidarity,
cooperation instead of competition.
and universalism, so to speak we think that all humans are are the similar
regarding their needs and from there are equals in rights to find an answer to their needs
This is the issues
So i hope you will be numeros, so in Paris aswell, it happen in the Docks of Aubervillier
There will be my Hologram, so it will be for you the opportunity to discover what ervery one knows.
When human inovate, when we don't put skin color, religion or gender condition
the imagination is unleashed, and shares the knowledge, that's what science teach us. And it makes me happy
A word again: saturday eve, i will be in a little village in Haute Sâone whiwh is named Champagney
I'm going there because, the year 1788, people in this little village as in some other little village in France learned that
we were doing treaties of slaves, were unworthy to know it
And they wrote in their book of grievances and their letter to the King
That we couldn't treat people this way because all human beings were alike.
They used for the first time this word ("semblable") in the political vernacular and they repeated it in their text.
So well that they witnessed for our honor, the fact that when the french people had to express theirself about this question they were against.
And you may ask me: why this Saturday?
Because it is the 4th of February.
And the first abolition of slavery in France, in the huge revolution of 1789, was a 4th of February.
And I would like to mark in red ink this instant, this wonderful moment.
It's our turn to be worthy of our elders. We shall not suffer this social slavery that some people endure in the country, who are suffering at work.
We shall not suffer the relegation slavery, to which so many people are constrained by the unemployment.
We shall not suffer the sub-citizen condition of the people who don't even have an address because they live on the street
and don't have any way to contribute to the community.
This what my presence the February 4th will mean and I'm happy to be able to speak about it with you.
So, well, Sunday we will have the answer to my question.
I'll repeat it in case he didn't understand: Benoît Hamon, choose between us and them.